Neuroplasticity and Growth Mindset Study.

1. Research Neuroplasticity:
	-Discuss how understanding the principles of Neuroplasticity benefits people
	-Discuss how you might engage with the principles of Neuroplasticity for your
	own benefit
	-What are some of the ways to increase your Neuroplasticity
	-Link to a resource that you found particularly useful or engaging

2. Research Growth Mindset:
	-Discuss what it is and why it is relevant
	-In this exploration, did anything surprise you?

		The most surprising thing was how much it made sense.
		I think most people believe deep down that they are capable of
		more than environmental factors are willing to give them credit for
		and I have always held a belief that there is nothing that you can't
		achieve if you put your mind to it. That may sound like a cliche
		to many people, but it really is true. 

	-How will you integrate growth mindset into your learning journey?
	
		Throughout my learning journey I expect to come across lots of 
		challenges. I will apply a growth mindset by changing the way
		I naturally respond to obstacles. 
	
		By leveraging Neuroplasticity I hope to re-wire my brain to see
		obstacles as something to be excited about, instead of afraid of.

	-Link to a resource that you found particularly useful or engaging.
		
		https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rxUZFKkdW4I

Neurons, are the electrically excitable cells in the brain. They are responsible for transmitting and receiving information. In the past it was believed that the pathways neurons operate along were fixed, and could not be altered. This meant a persons cognitive ability was fixed. Recently, science has discovered that the brain operates under a principle of "Neuroplasticity", which is described as the way that neural pathways can be shaped and moulded by stimuli. The major benefit of understanding Neuroplasticity is that it has helped us to shape our understanding of the human brain and its potential, because now a human beings potential is no longer fixed... it is able to be moulded and changed.

Learning about Neuroplasticity opens the doorway to your own potential. You can apply the principles of Neuroplasticity to learn new skills, and attain knowledge that might have previously seemed out of the realm of possibility.

How to Build Neuroplasticity:

Learning new skills, and aquriring knowledge through Neuroplasticity is all about building new neural pathways. To build these pathways we must reinforce them with the pillars of behaviour. Repeating a behaviour over and over will create these pathways, the same way that when you walk the same way through a grass field over and over you will eventually carve a clear path out of the tall grass.

If you want to increase your Neuroplasticity you need to get lots of sleep. Sleeping is crucial to the development and strengthening of neural pathways. It has been shown time and time again in scientific studies that sleep solidifies neural pathways, increasing memory and allowing the brain to recover from use. Studies have shown that excess sleep deprivation can lead to issues with memory, learning ability and overall cognitive function.

Another way to increase Neuroplasticity is meditation. Meditation has many benefits, but similar to sleep, it allows the meditator to give their brain proper rest, and helps them to train focus. Focus is key to Neuroplasticity because a mind that is able to focus on difficult tasks for longer will be able to develop new neural pathways much faster than it would otherwise. Meditation also gives rest to the body and mind, making it much easier for the brain to recover.

Another way to increase Neuroplasticity involves fasting. It has been shown that intermittent fasting and states of ketosis in the human body have effects the levels of BDNF in the brain. BDNP or "Brain-derived neurotrophic factor" is a protein that repairs the brain tissue. It is responsible for the growth of new neural pathways, and in doing so promotes the benefits of Neuroplasticity.

BDNF is also a factor in consistent physical exercise. Working out generates higher levels of BDNF making it much easier for the brain to form new neural pathways, so if you want to take your brain to the next level, it will help to pick up a daily exercise routine or sports activity. 

https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/medicine-and-dentistry/brain-derived-neurotrophic-factor

Growth Mindset;

Having a growth mindset is also important when trying to develop new skills or learn new information. The age old saying "If you believe you can, then you can. If you believe you can't then you can't" could not be more appropriate here. Time and time again it has been shown that people wildly underestimate their ability to grow and improve themselves, and this typically comes down to a wrong assumption they make about their mindset. The mistake they make is that they have a negative approach to growth, and they believe it to be true.  Holding a growth mindset means that you believe that you can continue to grow from wherever you are, and that your current situation is not fixed. This is beneficial in learning because it allows us to overcome obstacles by holding a "not yet" mentality. The "not yet" mentality helps us to understand that just because we don't know something yet, doesn't mean it isn't possible to know it eventually. Combining a growth mindset with the scientific fact of Neuroplasticity helps us to leave our negative preconceptions at the door when entering a new field of learning and by doing so increases our ability to learn and understand the new material.


